docs/setup.mdx, before:

---
title: Setup
description: How to setup next-forge
---

## Prerequisites

### Operating System

next-forge is designed to work on macOS, Linux and Windows. While next-forge itself is platform-agnostic, the tooling and dependencies we use have different requirements. We've tested and confirmed that next-forge works on the following combinations of operating systems and versions:

| Operating system | next-forge version | Node.js version | Notes |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ----- |
| macOS Sequoia 15.0.1 (24A348) | 2.14.3 | 20.12.2 |  |
| Ubuntu 24.04 Arm64 | 2.14.3 | 20.18.0 |  |
| Windows 11 Pro 24H2 (26100.2033) | 2.14.3 | 20.18.0 | Turborepo only supports specific architectures. `windows ia32` is not supported. |

We're aware of issues on [non-Ubuntu Linux distributions](https://github.com/haydenbleasel/next-forge/issues/238). While we don't officially support them, we'd love to know if you get it working!

### pnpm

next-forge defaults to using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) as a package manager, but you can use [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) or [bun](https://bun.sh/) instead.

Learn how to [install pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation).

### Stripe CLI

We use the Stripe CLI to forward webhooks to your local machine. You can read more about that [here](/payments).

Learn how to [install the Stripe CLI](https:/.stripe.com/stripe-cli#install) for your operating system.

### Mintlify CLI

We use the Mintlify CLI to preview the docs locally. You can install it with:

```sh Terminal
pnpm add -g @mintlify/cli
```

The boilerplate template docs will be launched at [http://localhost:3004/](http://localhost:3004/) when you start the development server (see below).

For the next-forge docs (what you're reading now), run:

```sh Terminal
cd docs
mintlify dev
```

### Ngrok

To test webhooks locally, you can use Ngrok to expose your local server to the internet. This allows Clerk to send webhooks to your local development environment.

1. Install Ngrok by following the instructions on the [Ngrok website](https://ngrok.com/download).
2. Start your local development server and Ngrok by running the following command in the `api` app:

```sh
pnpm dev
```

This will start the Next.js development server on port 3002, the Stripe CLI to forward webhooks to your local server, and Ngrok to expose your local server to the internet.

3. Copy the forwarding URL provided by Ngrok and add it to your Clerk project's webhook settings.

4. Now you can test Clerk webhooks locally without needing to deploy your app to a staging environment.

Learn how to [install Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/docs/getting-started/) for your operating system.

### Accounts

next-forge relies on various SaaS products. You will need to create accounts with the following services then set the API keys in your [environment variables](/env):

- [Arcjet](https://arcjet.com), for [application security](/security/application).
- [BetterStack](https://betterstack.com), for [logging](/observability/logging) and [uptime monitoring](/observability/uptime).
- [Clerk](https://clerk.com), for [authentication](/authentication).
- [Google Analytics](https://developers.google.com/analytics), for [web analytics](/analytics/web).
- [Posthog](https://posthog.com), for [product analytics](/analytics/product).
- [Resend](https://resend.com), for [transactional emails](/email/resend).
- [Sentry](https://sentry.io), for [error tracking](/observability/error-capture).
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com), for [payments](/payments).

## Installation

### Cloning

Clone the repo using `next-forge` init, replacing `[my-project]` with your project name.

```sh Terminal
npx next-forge@latest init [my-project]
```

This will create a new directory with your project name and clone the repo into it. It will run a setup script to install dependencies and copy `.env` files.

### Login

Login to Stripe with:

```sh Terminal
stripe login
```

### Environment variables

You should change the environment variables in each `.env` or `.env.local` file to match your own configuration e.g.

```js .env.local
DATABASE_URL="postgres://..."
```

Read more about environment variables [here](/env).

### Vercel Toolbar

Go into each application and run `vercel link`, like so:

```sh Terminal
cd apps/app
vercel link
```

### Database

You will need to scaffold the database using the schema defined in `packages/database/prisma/schema.prisma`:

```sh Terminal
pnpm migrate
```

## Development

Run the development server with:

```sh Terminal
pnpm dev
```

Open the localhost URLs with the relevant ports listed above to see the app, e.g.

- [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) — The main app.
- [http://localhost:3001/](http://localhost:3001/) — The website.
- [http://localhost:3002/](http://localhost:3002/) — The API.
- [http://localhost:3003/](http://localhost:3003/) — Email preview server.
- [http://localhost:3004/](http://localhost:3004/) — The docs

Commit message:

Add instructions for installing and using Ngrok in the setup documentation
* **Prerequisites**
  - Add a note about installing Ngrok in the prerequisites section
  - Provide a command to install Ngrok using Homebrew
  - Include a link to Ngrok's download page for other operating systems

* **Local Development**
  - Add instructions to start Ngrok and forward requests to port 3002
  - Explain how to use the provided forwarding URL for testing webhooks and other integrations

docs/setup.mdx, after:

---
title: Setup
description: How to setup next-forge
---

## Prerequisites

### Operating System

next-forge is designed to work on macOS, Linux and Windows. While next-forge itself is platform-agnostic, the tooling and dependencies we use have different requirements. We've tested and confirmed that next-forge works on the following combinations of operating systems and versions:

| Operating system | next-forge version | Node.js version | Notes |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ----- |
| macOS Sequoia 15.0.1 (24A348) | 2.14.3 | 20.12.2 |  |
| Ubuntu 24.04 Arm64 | 2.14.3 | 20.18.0 |  |
| Windows 11 Pro 24H2 (26100.2033) | 2.14.3 | 20.18.0 | Turborepo only supports specific architectures. `windows ia32` is not supported. |

We're aware of issues on [non-Ubuntu Linux distributions](https://github.com/haydenbleasel/next-forge/issues/238). While we don't officially support them, we'd love to know if you get it working!

### pnpm

next-forge defaults to using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) as a package manager, but you can use [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) or [bun](https://bun.sh/) instead.

Learn how to [install pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation).

### Stripe CLI

We use the Stripe CLI to forward webhooks to your local machine. You can read more about that [here](/payments).

Learn how to [install the Stripe CLI](https:/.stripe.com/stripe-cli#install) for your operating system.

### Mintlify CLI

We use the Mintlify CLI to preview the docs locally. You can install it with:

```sh Terminal
pnpm add -g @mintlify/cli
```

The boilerplate template docs will be launched at [http://localhost:3004/](http://localhost:3004/) when you start the development server (see below).

For the next-forge docs (what you're reading now), run:

```sh Terminal
cd docs
mintlify dev
```

### Ngrok

We use Ngrok to expose your local server to the internet for testing webhooks and other integrations. You can install it with:

```sh Terminal
brew install ngrok/ngrok/ngrok
```

Learn how to [install Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) for your operating system.

### Accounts

next-forge relies on various SaaS products. You will need to create accounts with the following services then set the API keys in your [environment variables](/env):

- [Arcjet](https://arcjet.com), for [application security](/security/application).
- [BetterStack](https://betterstack.com), for [logging](/observability/logging) and [uptime monitoring](/observability/uptime).
- [Clerk](https://clerk.com), for [authentication](/authentication).
- [Google Analytics](https://developers.google.com/analytics), for [web analytics](/analytics/web).
- [Posthog](https://posthog.com), for [product analytics](/analytics/product).
- [Resend](https://resend.com), for [transactional emails](/email/resend).
- [Sentry](https://sentry.io), for [error tracking](/observability/error-capture).
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com), for [payments](/payments).

## Installation

### Cloning

Clone the repo using `next-forge` init, replacing `[my-project]` with your project name.

```sh Terminal
npx next-forge@latest init [my-project]
```

This will create a new directory with your project name and clone the repo into it. It will run a setup script to install dependencies and copy `.env` files.

### Login

Login to Stripe with:

```sh Terminal
stripe login
```

### Environment variables

You should change the environment variables in each `.env` or `.env.local` file to match your own configuration e.g.

```js .env.local
DATABASE_URL="postgres://..."
```

Read more about environment variables [here](/env).

### Vercel Toolbar

Go into each application and run `vercel link`, like so:

```sh Terminal
cd apps/app
vercel link
```

### Database

You will need to scaffold the database using the schema defined in `packages/database/prisma/schema.prisma`:

```sh Terminal
pnpm migrate
```

## Development

Run the development server with:

```sh Terminal
pnpm dev
```

Open the localhost URLs with the relevant ports listed above to see the app, e.g.

- [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) — The main app.
- [http://localhost:3001/](http://localhost:3001/) — The website.
- [http://localhost:3002/](http://localhost:3002/) — The API.
- [http://localhost:3003/](http://localhost:3003/) — Email preview server.
- [http://localhost:3004/](http://localhost:3004/) — The docs

To start Ngrok and forward requests to port 3002, run:

```sh Terminal
ngrok http 3002
```

This will provide a forwarding URL (e.g., `https://<your-ngrok-subdomain>.ngrok.io`) that you can use to test webhooks and other integrations.
